I was just thinking to myself it's been
what 15 16 years since we first met
and both of us had independently heard
about a young woman who had gotten run
off the road and killed in Oklahoma and
each of us we put this together later as
we began to talk to each other each of
us sort of thought to ourselves at the
time gee you know somebody got to do
something about that well her name was
Karen Silkwood and it took us a couple
years to realize that the somebody was
going to have to be us that citizens
groups need to be formed to really bring
the system to function like it says that
it should and especially with Danny's
legal skills he joined me first of all
in the National Jesuit office that we
just mentioned and with his legal skills
we got involved in Silkwood and a whole
series of other cases that I'm sure you
know about but prior to that Danny had
been a Harvard Law grad and worked with
a major Wall Street law firm the Cahill
Gordon firm when I bentonville he was up
on the onand Agra reservation in upstate
New York doing Native American work and
I could tell by the fact that he got a
big hug from one of the Native American
women that this guy must have something
going for him
but the average lawyer doesn't have so I
was intrigued by that I haven't been
disappointed since then I'm sure you
won't be tonight Daniel Sheehan
great thank you very much
we've as you may know we've just
completed last week doing the oral
argument in front of the 11th Circuit
Court of Appeals in Miami they've
finally decided that they're going to
review judge King's order of 1988
stopping the major civil prosecution
against Richard Secord and Albert Hakeem
in the rest of Oliver Norris
off-the-shelf enterprise and we finally
secured the oral argument and presented
our case last week and so while we're
waiting now for the opinion from the
court to remove judge King from the case
and to reopen the major federal
discovery to give us subpoena power once
again to pursue these men we have sort
of taken this time to come back out to
see the folks around the country who
have been supporting us in this campaign
throughout these years and to sort of
attempt to ask the question of ourselves
of how are we doing right now there's a
major concern to state the least among a
lot of the people in the peace and
justice movement in light of this latest
massive display of firepower in the in
the Middle East in the biggest arms
exhibition of many many years and so
that it seems at this point of the the
Easter season and the Passover season
the beginning of a new celestial year
that it's the time when people
reappraise of where they are and how
they're doing so I I wanted to come out
and help evaluate ourselves and the
peace and justice community answer this
question of how we're doing it it always
it always reminds me when when someone
asked a general question like that well
how are you doing reminds me of Henny
Youngman
when Henny Youngman used to be asked
well how's your wife and he always used
to say compared to what
and so we have to ask ourselves at the
outset of a discussion like this is when
we're asking how are we or how are we
doing it has to be compared to what
according to what standard you know that
for example there a lot of people are
very much into saying well are you
better off now than you were last year
at this time or are you better off than
your parents were you hear an awful lot
about or are you
you sure are a lot better off than most
anybody else in any other country and so
that this this need to ascertain what
the referent is pursuant to which we're
measuring our well being is is very
important it's my suggestion that the
the proper standard and the proper
referent to use in accordance with
evaluating how well we're doing is first
of all how are we doing as the human
family in the midst of whatever this
long ongoing positive evolution is of
the human family in the development of
certain fundamental concepts such as the
concept of natural law the the evolution
of the species the evolution of our
consciousness the
in this leads of course to the question
of the American experiment in
constitutional government and democracy
so I think we need to ask ourselves
especially as as citizens of the United
States here in the 200th anniversary
year of the finalization of the
Constitution of the United States with
the passage of the Bill of Rights in
1791 - we need to ask ourselves how are
we doing as human beings and Americans
who are engaged in this major experiment
in constitutional government well I
think that there as I say there are a
number of key concepts I think at the
outset of a discussion like this that we
need to raise up and get in front of us
so that we can use them as reference in
in measuring
really how well we're doing for example
the the primary concept of the American
Constitution and its 200th year this
year was that the central government was
supposed to be a government of expressly
limited powers that were delegated from
the people to the president into the
Congress and that specifically we had
delegated judicial officials to apply
the restraints of the Constitution
against the executive branch and to hold
the executive branch responsible as they
would any other citizen to the rules of
law a second major concept was that
there were three separate and co-equal
branches of government
these were adopted as a device
specifically designed to check the
exuberance 'iz of a unilaterally acting
executive specifically the judiciary
again was asked to take it on the unique
responsibilities in this form of
government to hold the executive to the
rule of law most importantly one of
these rules of law a third precept of
the Constitution was that most
especially that the executive was to be
constrained from this proclivity that
executives had had down through the
centuries to engage in unjust Wars to
initiate Wars and to prosecute wars
against foreign entities and powers
without the consent of the governed
without a process of adequate
consultation and of course then to
impose upon the citizenry burdensome
taxes to pay for these onerous wars it
was a classic complaint of the human
family and it was why we gathered
ourselves together in this particular
constitutional experiment to place a
check upon that particular historical
practice of the executive most
specifically we set forth an article 1
section 8 of the Constitution the United
States a provision authorizing
exclusively in the United States
Congress to make these decisions as to
whether or not the troops of the United
States would be
to warfare and another major premise in
section 9 of article 1 at the very
outset of our Constitution was that
there would be no secret government
there would be no secret expenditure of
funds by the executive branch
all monies had to be raised by the
Congress and debated publicly before
they were expended these were
fundamental precepts of the Constitution
there were others in the Bill of Rights
that are extremely important for us to
recall briefly at the outset of our
evaluation of how we are doing at this
particular spring equinox in the 1990
first year of our country the free the
the first amendment for example the Bill
of Rights a free and independent press a
press which was designed to function in
effect as the Fourth Estate to act as a
check upon unjust government in the
leaders in their policies to set itself
up as a enquiring critiquing objective
critic of unjust policies also freedom
of speech was designed in the First
Amendment of the Constitution to sustain
and to support a concept of an inquiring
and well-informed electorate an
intelligent citizenry that would ask the
questions to read and to get access to
information in open in robust public
debate and of course also in the First
Amendment the freedom of religion to
protect the major spiritual communities
so that they could raise themselves up
to critique the government to hold the
nation up to certain fundamental
precepts of the valuing of human life
the valuing of truth and other
fundamental precepts of the religious
communities now there was also another
fundamental concept in the second
amendment of the Constitution this was
the article dealing with the right to
bear arms to provide the only
politically acceptable common defense
for the people because Washington
General Washington in his first in his
farewell address in 1796 his major theme
of his farewell address was to beware of
standing armies beware of a massive
military bureaucracy that would insist
upon raiding the public treasury and
building a standing army he pointed out
the warning that a major standing army
consuming massive portions of your
public treasury will in fact lead you
into foreign wars over and over again
and these are the concepts that were at
the base of the the concept of bringing
us together as a new experiment in human
freedom and a new in vigorous form of
government so it's in this context that
I would like to ask here
at the spring of 1991 of how are we
doing now I have a little bad news and I
have a little good news you always ask
you know which one would you like to
have first and it reminds me of that
that old story of the of the man who
would come in every spring at the at the
spring equinox he would come and have
his medical check-up he came to the
doctor and had his medical check-up this
year and gets all done and he says to
the doctor he says how I do it and the
doctor said well I've got a little bad
news and I've got a little good news
which one would you like first so the
guy says well gee give me the bad news
first and then let me hear the good news
what's the bad news the doctor says well
you have an incurable disease it's fatal
and you'll be dead by the summertime the
guy says well my god what's the good
news
the doctor turns newman says you see
this beautiful young nurse over here she
and I are gonna be married in June so
see Ronald Reagan Ronald Reagan and
George Bush thinks things are fine they
think that everything is going great
that they're preparing for a wedding
feast they're dancing to a wedding song
sort of sung to the tune of a thousand
points of light specifically I think to
ten specific shiny points of light in
their particular constellation the first
of which of course is the Persian Gulf
War yellow ribbons all across the
country everyone's celebrating 92
percent - down to 87 percent at the
worst positive ratings Operation Desert
rainbow throughout the country secondly
George Bush thinks that he not only has
the American public wrapped up in a
yellow ribbon but also the Democratic
Party and therefore all you hears is
drones of a funeral dirge basically for
the Democratic Party in 1992 that
they'll be wrapped up in a yellow ribbon
and delivered in the the second-biggest
juggernaut in in the next two years in
the third issue is that the Soviet Union
is basically collapsing falling apart
before the very eyes of the Republican
Party the Communists are collapsing
everywhere across the globe the West has
finally won the Cold War
45 years of massive repeated military
spending has finally been justified of
all the criticisms that now they are
arguing that look we've defeated the
Soviet Union through a massive economic
expenditure year after year we've
basically bled their public treasury dry
until they went bankrupt they were
putting all of their money into building
these huge and
ballistic missiles and their economy was
destroyed their agriculture was
destroyed you see that this was a smart
and wise policy we've just recently
defeated Saddam Hussein we beat Noriega
in Panama we've defeated the Sandinistas
in Nicaragua the only one left around
now for us defeat is Castro and even
that the mayor of the city of Miami is
now having the the police department go
through special drills to prepare for
the massive celebrations in the streets
in fact for the imminent downfall of
Castro and his regime and of course
Germany has been reunited it's better
news for some people than others and
that the Berlin Wall is down now the
European Economic Community is now
coming to the fore in their inviting
both President Bush and President
Gorbachev to come to their summit
conference in the spring of 1992 they're
looking toward a major new northern
industrial state alliance all organized
under the international banking system
to give new loans to the the Eastern
European countries for reconstructing
them on the scale of the Marshall Plan
giving major loans to the Soviet Union
so they can invest and become part of
the free market system of course not all
of the Soviet Union primarily the White
Russians the Caucasian Russians of the
Soviet Union the European type Russians
that were part of the Peter the Great's
tradition get rid of those kind of
Slavic sections and the Mongolian
sections let them sort of spin off this
is all basically good news to these men
because you can then bring these people
together into a new northern industrial
state's alliance this is all good news
to them and of course a great piece of
news that the patriot worked and that
the scud didn't work but all of these
are basically overshadowed by the one
overwhelming piece of good news being
sung at the wedding feast of these
particular people and that is by god
they have finally kicked the Vietnam
syndrome
now this is this is their their wedding
feast song now on the other hand
conversely a number of people look upon
this same basic information and here a
funeral dirge basically feel that
they've been given notice that the peace
and justice movement has just received
word that it is terminally ill that the
American public is suffering from an
incurable disease of apathy and
subjectivity - militaristic propaganda
amnesia politically basically that
they're politically brain-dead this is
absolutely horrible totally devastating
no possible chance for resurrection out
of this what's going on every single day
across the city's operation rainbow is
the parade's of every of every type of
description each day a new group of
people come home an hour on the front
pages and are being paraded around they
view this actually as epitomizing the
the futility of 25 years of political
organizing and public education from
1965 and trying to oppose the Vietnam
War the 92 percent approval rating is
just absolute evidence showing that Joe
Sixpack is totally malleable and
manipulatable by Bush and his Madison
Avenue slicksters you know black
Manafort in stone and the other public
relations firms that they use instead of
political analysts and of course people
in this particular group looked to the
national news media has another great
source of bad news considering them sort
of corporate controlled pigs sort of
feeding at the Pentagon trough of news
being handed out to them every day
NBC owned by General Electric sitting
rubbing their hands in glee watching all
of the jets flying off every single day
in the Middle East with General Electric
engines every one of them on all sides
of the conflict
and ABC television now owned by cap City
one of the persons on the board of
directors of which was Bill Casey you
know sponsoring Ted Koppel every single
night is sort of an ongoing parade of
former heads of dia and in Henry
Kissinger and the former head of the
Central Intelligence Agency and Henry
Kissinger and former secretaries of
state and Henry Kissinger and and just
over and over again coming on CNN
actually even having Richard Secord come
on as a major military expert in the
Middle East not a single mention of what
his other activities had been of late
and of course none of them were outdone
by we're quite as outdone as Dan Rather
tears welling up in his eyes as our boys
liberated Kuwait City and pictures of
you know the the Iraqis coming out and
kissing the hands of the US military
guys the military guys going well that's
okay it's okay now we're here you know
that this was not a lot of good news for
people and and they and many people have
said you know with regard to watching
television if they see general
Schwarzkopf one more time in his brown
and beige Mufti and his Gucci suede
combat boots and his little silver tip
collapsible pointer showing one more
smart bomb basically going down the
chimney of some building and coming up
to the door and ringing the doorbell and
going in exploding in the living room of
one of these Iraqis that they're getting
ready to puke
and of course they
this is this is all in the context of
course of the ongoing funeral dirge of
this particular sector of the community
then turning around and saying well
isn't there some better news around
somewhere like how about the Savings and
Loan corporations and the state of the
economy a good stable economy now that
we're being told not asked not subject
to any debate the only debate is whether
you're going to have to pay five hundred
billion dollars or a trillion dollars
that's really where the debate seems to
be going on now you're not given many
additional options and in a certain
sense the that makes the the war news
from Iraq good news because that's the
only place that's in worse ruin than the
Savings and Loan associations and even
then we are going to have to pay all the
money to reconstruct Iraq we're going to
have to pay the money to reconstruct the
Savings and Loan corporations but of
course then there's a a nagging
understanding that this 500 billion to 2
to 1 trillion dollar ticket isn't really
going to be used to reconstruct any kind
of bonafide Savings and Loan system it's
going to be a major subsidy to finance
these same men buying each other's
savings and loan banks and pretending
that some serious resolution of this
problem has been brought about and of
course then they're told that don't
worry the federal banking system is next
that will now be deregulated in light of
the great success that we've had with
the Savings and Loan corporations of
course then there's the iran-contra
people where you've seen that all of
them basically let go scot-free even
when Oliver North was originally given
that strict sentence of having to spend
two whole months working in the inner
city telling young black
poverty-stricken jobless inner-city
youth that they should just say no to
drugs and of course there's a deep
nagging suspicion that that Oliver North
should know
and of course not even Richard Secord
his two years suspended sentence for
what what did he get the suspended
sentence for for eight million dollars
of embezzled money and they're in the
weapons sale you know no they'd want to
raise serious charges against him for
how about for selling the tow missiles
to Iran in violation of the arms Export
Control Act a blatant and unequivocal
criminal act know who wasn't sentenced
for that how about selling billions of
dollars with Sarki saguenay lien of
military equipment to Iraq in violation
of the arms Export Control Act knew none
of those charges were brought against
him lying no perjury no murder no
cocaine smuggling no instead for failing
to tell Congress the entire truth about
giving a security fence to Oliver North
and for this he gets a suspended
sentence of two years in fact he got a
worse sentence for his single drug drunk
driving conviction in Virginia now this
doesn't strike people as good news so
they say well can we rely upon the
federal judiciary can people like the
Christic Institute the American Civil
Liberties Union B'nai B'rith the
n-double-a-cp are the others can they
bring these actions before a court of
law and of course they see this win
dling possibility now with 55% of the
federal judiciary now having been
appointed by Ronald Reagan or George
Bush they see that if in fact George
Bush does sweep to victory in 1992 in
the face of this massive and impressive
democratic resistance that that will
just give him more time four more years
to appoint more and more people so that
upwards of almost 70% of the federal
judiciary will be appointed by him now
that leads us to the issue of course of
the Democrats in the Democratic Party
and we look out upon the landscape to
determine what type of Hope can be
derived from them and we see Michael
Dukakis snoopy in a tank basically
riding around it can't even control
to choose us anymore it's going
collapsed and he loses the nomination up
there and so they told us that well
don't look to that leadership look to
Tom Foley that that sterling aggressive
you know charismatic character that is
in the Congress you know and or Richard
Gephardt perhaps who still likes to brag
about being an Eagle Scout back when he
was a kid who defines himself as a
terminal centrist in his own his if one
could ever imagine anyone describing
themselves like that and so they say
therefore we can't really rely upon
these people because of course they're
too liberal so let's take a look to the
right a bit to Sam Nunn who basically
sleeps in a generals pajamas probably in
a bed shaped like a b-52 each night or
maybe Chuck Robb from Virginia whose
greatest and most intelligent act was
marrying Lynda Bird Johnson after she
was turned down by George Hamilton as I
recall now so so you you you look you
look out upon this landscape looking for
a source of cheerfulness and you wonder
about the Congress itself in its
entirety sort of whimpering in the face
of President Bush's declaration that
he's going to invade Iraq either with
them or without them as of course so
they scramble quickly to say well let's
tell him it's okay before he does it a
great stalwart defense of the
constitutional principles are whining in
the face of Ronald Reagan and George
Bush basically spitting in their eye and
telling them that he's going to violate
the Boland Amendment and if they won't
pay for the money they'll get it from
such stalwarts of civil liberties as
Saudi Arabia that great ball work of
religious freedom for example and the
conclusion that these people come to is
that we come to the end
of the decade of the 80s having watched
the the corporate hogs basically
slopping at the public trough the
richest 10% of the country getting
increased wealth to 20 percent value
homelessness on the rise the
middle-class and working-class no longer
able to buy homes as kids the blacks and
Hispanics having no chance of major
opportunities in education unless they
go into the military and of course end
up getting sent to the near the next
adventure of the administration and so
what people begin to think in this group
is that these 25 years of working and
struggling and organizing and attempting
to educate the American public have all
ended in the death in defeat of the
peace and justice movement
it feels indeed as Easter approaches
like the crucifixion the people feel in
fact that we have all and the peace and
justice movement then crucified on a
cross of yellow ribbon but it's it's
important I think that if I missed
anything I think that this this this
tends to sort of cover a number of
issues that are on people's mind as we
gather together here in the Easter
season and Passover season of 1991
well I'm here tonight to set the record
straight the fact is that in my opinion
that this is a short-sighted
self-indulgent indeed petulant in self
pitying short-term reaction to the
examples of what we have seen it's
understandable but it's an entirely
inadequate analysis of what's happening
I would like to tell you that rainbows
in the desert are fundamentally an
illusion you don't have rainbows in the
desert the fact is that this threatened
juggernaut of 1992 should not be viewed
with the absolute dread of the end of
our of our entire campaign I want you to
remember that in 1972 you witnessed the
largest single political landslide in
the history of American politics at the
hands of Richard M
Nixon and within two years he himself
was history and went down to shame and
defeat because of facts that were known
to the people before the election just
as was we gather here tonight the facts
that are known about the Bush
administration are going to show to you
that what you need to look upon is not
just the suffering in the depression of
a Good Friday or of the being abandoned
during Passover to wander in the desert
for a period of years I've come to you
tonight to talk about the issue of
resurrection and of life and of hope
this is in the final analysis what the
spring equinox has always been about in
the human family the celebration of the
cycle of life the coming back to life I
am saying to you that the Christic
Institute itself has been before Pilate
in Miami that outskirt of civilization
and that man Judge King the pilot of
Herod's men who has been appointed to
that very seat in the Outlands of law
and order to to do the will of Herod and
that are we have been condemned by
Pilate at the Christic Institute to
death to summary judgment to an
execution of immediate death of being
ordered to have to raise 1.2 million
dollars in cash within a 10-day period
and for what has the Christic Institute
been so condemned by Pilate for speaking
truth to power - specifically holding up
the state to public ridicule pointing
out that the citizenry should withdraw
its absolute loyalty from this pagan
administration that in fact we have
condemned them for their lies for the
murder of the innocent for their
Imperial quests from their haughty
capitals of marble domes that we have
been put to a certain form of
crucifixion at the Christic Institute to
have been hung upon the cross
public scourging on the hands of the New
York Times condemned as filing a
scurrilous set of accusations against
upstanding patriotic American citizens
like Jackson globe and Richard Secord
based on secondhand information we've
been condemned in the pages of The
Washington Post they actually went so
far in a major editorial in the
Washington Post to say that the Christic
Institute's accusations against these
men are so reckless and irresponsible
that they've gone so far as to suggest
that certain elements of the Central
Intelligence Agency were actually
working with certain elements of
organized crime to assassinate Fidel
Castro an absolutely established fact
that was proven beyond the shadow of a
doubt in open congressional
investigations by direct first-hand
eyewitness accounts and we've been
condemned for being the false messiah of
the peace and justice movement in the
United States for a falsely promising
the soon coming of the parousia a coming
of heaven on earth the public revelation
in a single lawsuit of the crimes of the
of the state for over a 40-year period
all the way from the kennedy
assassination to Watergate to Vietnam to
the iran-contra scandal all wrapped in
one major package in presenting an
opportunity for the American public to
evaluate the criminal history of their
own leaders and to bring them to justice
only to have been cast down by Pilate as
a false prophet to be condemned to be
condemned to be crucified in fact in
unable to ever rise again and indeed
they have even gone so far as to
publicly release Barabbas a murderer and
a thief and a liar the Oliver North of
his own times they've condemned the
Christic Institute and we've been hung
upon the cross and left to die now I am
suggesting that in this season of
despair and depression akin to that of
Friday that the word of the death going
out of the Christic Institute is
fundamentally premature I am I am
suggesting that it is premature to begin
to wail and bemoaned the demise of the
Christic Institute and it's lawsuit
against the secret team just as it is
premature to start to bemoan and bewail
the premature death of the peace and
justice movement I'm suggesting to you
tonight that you join with us to put
your shoulder to roll away the stone to
look into the tomb with me tonight and
to see that it is in fact empty that you
need not look among the land of the dead
for those who are still living among the
Christic Institute and the peace and
justice movement of this country and you
can look upon the road to Damascus where
we are gathering to bring justice to
this country to look at the real
situation that this man faces that I am
suggesting to you tonight that this man
is in a situation that is very similar
to the situation that confronted Richard
Nixon back in 1972 that the the great
calls for a political juggernaut against
the Democratic Party to try to outstrip
the political avalanche of Richard Nixon
of 1972 is nothing but the gathering
storm clouds of a major catastrophe
facing this administration and I want to
point out to you what the simple facts
are so that you will know that what I am
telling you in the same way of what we
came to tell you at the beginning of
1986 about the existence of this
off-the-shelf standalone criminal
enterprise that we brought the news to
the United States about our true facts
that you can rely upon and I would
suggest to you that this information is
going to start coming out very quickly
because an in last Sunday's liberal
newspaper the san diego union
they're editorial page editor Robert
Caldwell wrote as follows America's
stunning victory in the Persian Gulf War
has left the Bush administration looking
masterful and its critics looking simply
wrong
amidst the National Year affort euphoria
few seemed to be interested in
reexamining the diplomatic blunders that
last summer led to and indeed invited
war this matter now cries out for
congressional attention what is needed
is a full historical record to set forth
a vital object lesson for this
administration predictably the Bush
administration is resisting any
congressional inquiry into American
policy toward Iraq before Hussein
invaded Kuwait last August second the
State Department has rebuffed three
separate written requests from two
separate congressional committees
seeking testimony from April Glaspie
America's ambassador to Iraq in on
August 2nd keeping Glaspie under wraps
muzzled and incommunicado makes very
little sense unless the motive is not to
adjust policy but simply public
relations
now as you as we gather here tonight
they have tried to overcome this by the
administration offering April glaspie to
a friendly private discussion among some
of the people on the hill not
embarrassing her by placing her under
oath and of course having given them all
of the time to be constructing false
chronologies false information false
documents which this administration has
demonstrated that is exactly what it
will do when confronted with any kind of
call for public accounting but the the
the editorial then goes on to list a
number of serious questions that really
need to be asked about what was really
going on and these are the questions
that have now been raised by the
Christic Institute prior to this in a
major position paper that is available
for you here tonight and it is set forth
called covert operations the Persian
Gulf War and the new world order
and what I want to do is to discuss
these briefly with you tonight so that
you can see that what really is going on
is a very illusory celebration on the
part of this administration and on the
part of a very shallow analysis on the
part of the American citizenry which
will not hold in fact what we will show
you is that how we did this the the
Christic Institute when when this
incursion took place on August 2nd we
met with one of our investigators a
professional investigator of some 35
years experience fluent in Farsi who is
familiar on a first-name basis with the
leadership of the Saudi Arabian military
and used to in fact be one of the major
advisors to the US military mission in
Tehran and he said to us Bill Davis and
I met with him and he said look there's
a little event here that has just
happened that you guys ought to take a
look into if you really want to get to
the bottom of what's going on here
because immediately upon the incursion
on August 2nd the Arab nations called
together an emergency Arab summit
conference in Cairo seeking an Arab
solution to this problem and all of the
foreign ministers of all of the Arab
nations came together in Cairo in August
of 1990 they gathered together in on
August 10th eight days after the
incursion the foreign minister from
Kuwait Sabah confronted the foreign
minister from Iraq Tariq Aziz on the
open floor of the Arab summit conference
in Sabah from from Kuwait pointed at
Tariq Aziz from Iraq and he said you
nasty Rascals you guys undertook a
unilateral military invasion of our
country of Kuwait and you ought to be
thrown out of here you guys are really
nasty guys and you better get in big
trouble for this
well Tariq Aziz in front of the entire
assembled Arab leadership pointed at him
and said you had better be extremely
careful about what you say to me in
public because we have copies of
transcripts of your meetings in the
foreign ministry in Kuwait
with representatives of the American
Central Intelligence Agency in planning
a covert operation directed against
Saddam Hussein in the Foreign Minister
of Kuwait passed-out fainted dead away
crash on the floor like that feet in the
air
roads rattling down he went now this
turned up on page 24 of the New York
Times a little bit later but our
investigators that you should look into
what this guy is talking about here
because there's really serious trouble
here so we contacted some people for
example with the National Council of
Churches there there is a Middle East
Division of the National Council of
Churches that Bishop browning the
Episcopal presiding bishop is in charge
of in the bill wiffler and number of
other people work in this area we
contacted them and began to to do some
research of some investigation into this
area and we ended up talking with
Professor Michael Clair who is a
professor of a peace and justice studies
and national security studies up at the
five college consortium in Amherst
Massachusetts for Amherst and UMass and
the and the other colleges are and he
had been conducting an investigation
since the middle of 1989 that
demonstrated that in mid 1989 when
President Gorbachev announced
unilaterally that he was withdrawing
from the 45 year cold war that he was
going to be functionally unilaterally
disassembling the Warsaw Pact and
therefore bringing to an abrupt and
immediate end of the Cold War the
American citizenry in general viewed
this with great exultation this was
great news you remember all of the
pictures of them tearing down and taking
chunks of the Berlin Wall
you could buy chunks of the Berlin Wall
that were what has made up the Wall of
China at about that time did you
remember in all the little stars that
they and that was a great euphoria there
but that wasn't greeted as good news by
everybody in the country in fact as it
turned out the leadership in the
Pentagon and in the White House and in
the military industrial companies around
this nation who have lived for
forty-five years on the paranoia of this
dialectic with
Russian communism and their threat to
take over the world viewed this
operation with horror and in fact what
Professor Claire has done is obtained
copies of the documents they were being
circulated inside the White House and
inside the Pentagon in which they were
exchanging terrible consequences coming
to the to the industry and they began to
scramble immediately to try to develop a
new mission for the military in the
intelligence community of the United
States so they could maintain their
position at the table of formulating
foreign policy for the United States and
so that it would result in the continued
need for massive military expenditures
because as you remember all the
discussion of the peace dividend to
start looking for money now that did not
need to be spent on military hardware
and strategic weaponry could be put into
the fields of education housing you know
a medical assistance for people in our
country job training the other range of
issues that were being discussed very
aggressively at that time you have to
understand that these leaders of
Industry and these people in the in the
military of the United States and in the
White House viewed that as money being
taken from their pocket that they were
being threatened with losing their three
hundred billion dollar a year sinha cure
that they had that in fact in the Reagan
administration's had come to the amount
of three trillion dollars and these men
began to explore for a new mission for
the American military now there were two
basic schools that developed according
to Professor Clair in analyzing these
documents which has now been given to
the Christic Institute that what one of
the schools of thought the the peaceful
side said look let's insist upon keeping
access to this three hundred billion
dollars a year of tax monies from the
average working citizenry having it come
to us and what we'll do is we'll use
that to retool American industry to
retool the heavy steel industry in the
manufacturing industry etcetera to be
able to compete economically with Japan
and Germany and that was their proposal
not free market free
prai's but major state supported
capitalism of taking our tax monies our
working money and putting it back in to
pay to the private industry to retool
their entire days as if it was a
national requirement to protect our our
liberties in our country that we had to
sustain these industries there was a
second school of thought referred to
within the memos and stuff in a jargon
as depressions that started insisting
that no no no we don't do that what we
need to do is we need to retool the
military we have to admit that we no
longer need to to lay major strategic
war fighting capability we don't need
intercontinental ballistic missiles huge
b-52 stratasys stealth bombers this type
that we don't need that strategic kind
of war fighting machine but we do need
to retool our middle level or
traditional war making capabilities of
tanks and regular fighter planes etc but
most importantly we need to retool for
low intensity conflict because the new
mission for the military is going to be
to provide the military shield for the
northern industrial states and their
continued access to the strategic raw
materials that are needed by the
northern industrial states stating it
Raleigh in bluntly in two separate
papers that that we have here one of
which is is the United States Army
proposal called its January 1990 paper
called a strategic force for the 90s and
Beyond and a June 1990 paper from the
Department of Air Force called
global reach global power and they
specifically by May of 1990 had begun to
discuss the logical candidates in the
third world that might be targets of low
intensity conflict covert operations
secret clandestine programs to remove
these people as a potential threat to
the access
of the northern industrial states to the
strategic raw materials that were needed
and by may of 1990 they had begun
specifically to discuss the Persian Gulf
and specifically began to discuss Iraq
in Saddam Hussein this is by May of 1990
and so therefore it gives rise to a
fundamental question that by May in June
of 1990 was there a covert operation
functioning directed toward and
targeting Saddam Hussein as was publicly
accused on the floor of the Arab summit
conference on August 10th of 1990 by
Tariq Aziz in fact this has been
demonstrated to be true that the
Christic Institute has now come into
possession of a classified document from
the Kuwaiti
internal security detailing in November
1989 meeting in Washington DC between
the general of the State Security
Department of Kuwait and the leadership
of the United States Central
Intelligence Agency and we have this
this document which was which was
written by the the secretary the state
secretary Department Secretary from
Kuwait and he says this we have agreed
with the United States to put pressure
on the Iraqi government to delineate our
common border the Central Intelligence
Agency has given us this view and the
means to apply this pressure saying that
broad cooperation should be initiated
between us and coordinated at the very
highest levels and what this
demonstrates is that by by May of 1990
there was a campaign underway being
choreographed by the American Central
Intelligence Agency and the Kuwaiti
foreign ministry to attempt to apply
pressure to saddam hussein and it is in
this context that you then need to begin
to evaluate what the
major strategic objective was of the
military and of the intelligence
community so that when you see April
Glaspie on July 25th of 1990 meeting
with Saddam Hussein and stating to him
that we had no I'll get I'll get very
specific about what it is that she did
say when in fact she meant on July 25th
with Saddam Hussein she said to him in
in transcripts of this conversation when
asked by Saddam Hussein what the
American response would be with regard
to their border dispute her quote was we
have no opinion on such arab-arab
conflicts like your border disagreement
with Kuwait Secretary of State James
Baker has directed me specifically to
emphasize this instruction to you the
very next day State Department
spokesperson Margaret top Wilder called
a special press conference in Washington
and brought in the national media in the
following exchange took place in this
special conference the questions miss
Tutwiler has the u.s. sent any type of
diplomatic message of protest to iraq
about putting 30,000 troops on the
border with Kuwait has there been any
form of protest at all the answer from
his Tutwiler well mr. Kelly
that's mr. Kelly the Assistant Secretary
of State for Near Eastern affairs John
Kelly mr. Kelly has had more than one
meeting on this very subject our
ambassadors in the region are actively
discussing the situation among
themselves but I am unaware of any type
of protest in diplomatic jargon that has
been communicated to Iraq question do
you happen to know if the US has any
commitment to Kuwait to defend Kuwait
for example against aggression answer we
do not have any defense treaties with
Kuwait there is no defense or security
commitments of any kind to Kuwait and on
July 31st two days before the Iraqi
incursion Assistant Secretary of State
for Near Eastern affairs John Kelly
himself the boss of these people States
in public testimony to the United States
Congress that there is no
commitment of any kind to defend Kuwait
the US has no intention of defending
Kuwait if it's attacked by Iraq now you
have to analyze those types of
communications going into Saddam Hussein
in the context of this particular
scenario that's being developed it is
evidenced dramatically by these internal
White House and Pentagon studies naming
Kuwait naming them as a potential target
for covert operations to justify the new
mission for the the military-industrial
complex and for the intelligence
community and if anyone has any doubts
as to whether they were self consciously
aware of this program I refer you to
richard armitage and the statements that
he made to the Washington Times the
Reagan administration assistant
secretary of defense for international
security affairs and now the special
middle-eastern envoy for President Bush
and he states this in the Washington
Post in The Washington Times two
different newspapers he says those who
so recently predicted America's imminent
decline must now confess that the United
States alone possesses economic moral
and military horsepower to jumpstart and
to drive international affairs now and
this is the man of course Richard
Armitage who personally helped deliver
the missiles the tow missiles to Iran as
part of the secret team and that brings
us to a very special set of information
which I think that you probably have not
heard prior to this evening the Christic
Institute is now in possession of
formerly classified Central Intelligence
Agency transcripts of a specific
conversation that took place with
between Oliver North Richard Secord and
Albert Hakeem
familiar names to us all especially
those of us who've been prosecuting
these very men
part of the secret team to this time a
conversation going on between them on
October 29th of 1985 in the midst of the
negotiations with the the Iranian second
channel a relative of Roth's and Johnny
the man with whom they were cutting the
tow missile deal that in addition to
promising to deliver to them the tow
missiles in complete criminal violation
of the arms Export Control Act and in
violation of the prohibitions by
Congress
these men agreed on October 29th of 1985
to overthrow Saddam Hussein specifically
made with a promise on October 29th of
1985 in certified Central Intelligence
Agency transcripts of those
conversations and in 1986 bani-sadr the
president of Iran's Revolutionary
Islamic Republic
told The Associated Press that all the
dealings between Iran and this group of
men were based on their direct agreement
reached in late 1985 that Iraqi
president Saddam Hussein would be driven
from power by the United States now this
is the conversation that took place in
as I said October 29th 1985 in Frankfurt
Germany between the leadership of the
secret team working with George Bush and
the Iranian government and from that
point on they began in prior to that
they began a major supply of weapons to
Saddam Hussein in fact the secret team
of Richard Secord
Albert Hakim and Oliver North and and
these men along with Sarki saguenay Leon
who are listed together as you can see
an Oliver North's notebook a page from
Oliver North's notebook Sarkis
Cunningham Klein's Secord specifically
running guns to Baghdad and we're not
talking about chump change here my
friends we are talking about fifty
billion dollars worth of military
equipment
being criminally communicated and given
to Saddam Hussein and why was it being
given to Saddam Hussein well therein
hangs the tail my friends because this
is the history of what went on there
this began back in 1953 when the 5412
Committee of the National Security
Council at that time chaired by Richard
M Nixon his vice-president chairing the
54:12 committee initiated the first
major criminal covert operation of the
agency called Operation Ajax which was
to overthrow the democratically elected
government in Iran of Mohammed Mossadegh
specifically why because Mossadegh the
democratically elected leader of Iran
had threatened to nationalize the
British owned oil fields in Iran he has
to kind of ask yourself how do the
British end up owning the oil fields in
Iran but that minor question aside the
point is that the United States Central
Intelligence Agency the same people
under Richard Nixon overthrew that
democratically elected government and
put into power the Shah of Iran Mohammad
Reza Pahlavi levy and put him on the
royal throne and began to supply massive
military assistance to him to sustain
him and power at the same time they
began to provide criminal intelligence
information to him to support his Saavik
the worst terrorist secret police unit
in the world at the time and in case you
don't take our word for it take the word
of Amnesty International in their 1986
report
Amnesty International reviewing the
Shahs government and the the SAVAK said
that Amnesty International has been
declared to have the highest rate of
death penalties on the planet it has no
valid system of civilian courts and it
has a history of torture which is
absolutely beyond belief there is no
country in the entire world that has a
worst record in human rights than Iran
under the control of the Shah of Iran
placed in power by the criminal
to the Central Intelligence Agency and
with this type of instability with this
type of terror being wreaked upon the
population to generate an unstable
revolutionary kind of displeasure in the
population we begin to supply at that
time twenty two billion dollars worth of
military equipment to the government of
the Shah of Iran through Richard Secord
and Albert Hakim supplying this military
equipment and so that when you've
created a nation that hates you enormous
Lee refuse you as the devil incarnate
you have created forces of unrest in
that country that makes it almost
inevitable that they will fall and of
course when they fall from power and are
then in possession of 22 billion dollars
worth of military equipment what steps
are then taken by this criminal cabal
within the Central Intelligence Agency
the secret team why of course they begin
to supply fifty billion dollars worth of
military equipment to their neighbor
Iraq in Saddam Hussein and of course
they encourage Saddam Hussein to invade
in in the Reagan Bush administration in
1980 specifically gave permission to
Saddam Hussein to invade Iran because
Iran was saying nasty things about the
Reagan administration that in fact they
were insulting them and calling us the
evil empire etc and so therefore Saddam
Hussein went on and invaded Iran and
began the iran-iraq war for which he's
been roundly castigated as you know by
the administration without their telling
you that he did so at their behest and
that they in fact then began to supply
him with masses billions of dollars of
military equipment in complete criminal
violation of the law they were
absolutely forbidden to give military
equipment to Iraq in the same way that
they were forbidden to give military
equipment to Iran so therefore they used
the exact same secret team the same
off-the-shelf enterprise to supply this
military equipment to Saddam Hussein
until they had created the fourth
biggest military power on the planet why
to help crush the sixth biggest military
power on the planet which they had just
gotten through
creating the Richard Secord in these
other men supplying 22 billion dollars
worth of military equipment to them
and then they decide that they need to
send in five hundred thousand United
States citizens and put them at risk to
overthrow this government and they tried
to tell us that they are intelligent men
running an intelligence system and what
George Bush does is what does he do when
faced with the unequivocal diplomatic
reaction on the part of the United
Nations that one day after the invasion
of August 2nd the United Nations
Security Council votes 14 to 0 demanding
the immediate withdrawal of the Iraqi
troops and a few days later votes 13 to
0 to impose economic sanctions and to
follow the diplomatic route what does
George Bush do unilaterally with no
consultation with the United Nations no
authority of any kind from Congress
because they're on summer vacation sends
250,000 United States military personnel
into the Gulf what to protect Saudi
Arabia
which they somehow thought was getting
set to be invaded is that why they
wanted to go in to protect Saudi Arabia
I would suggest to you that there's a
different reason because in fact it was
Saudi Arabia that was supplying millions
and millions of dollars to the
enterprise to the secret team to the
Reagan administration when they couldn't
get the money from Congress as you
recall they went to Saudi Arabia and got
the money and many many people have been
speculating about what type of
obligation the Bush administration had
incurred as a result of this special
relationship with Saudi Arabia such that
now thousands of American citizens have
been placed at risk and jeopardized in
the Persian Gulf War to repay the
criminal debt that was generated from
Saudi Arabia who were criminal
co-conspirators with the enterprise to
circumvent the Constitution of the
United States and the direct
prohibitions by Congress under their
constitutional authority forbidding them
to mount military efforts against
Nicaragua and also against Angola in
violation of the Clark Amendment and so
George Bush then starts putting pressure
on the United Nations demanding that
they give him the authority to invade
but stated publicly stated publicly in
the October 30th of 1990 that he was
going to send military troops of the
United States into invade in militarily
houst Saddam Hussein from Kuwait whether
the United Nations voted to let him do
so or not because he said he wasn't
going to reply rely upon the United
Nations he was going to send them in to
defend vital American interests and that
he was going to do so even if Congress
didn't give him any authorization to do
so even though they have the exclusive
authority under article 1 section 8 to
declare war and so what does he do he
sets upon telling the Congress he's
going to send in the invasion troops and
then he goes and he starts to put
pressure on the individual members of
the Security Council to try to give him
a resolution authorizing military force
and how does he go about doing that I
would suggest that you listen to the
Reagan Bush administration's Secretary
of the Navy
not a liberal man not a liberal general
critic of the administration James Webb
who states to the Washington Times that
these UN resolutions against Iraq mean
absolutely nothing at all he said those
were bought and paid for by James Baker
using our money our taxpayers money to
do it and he states that I have in fact
quote come to believe that we have been
intentionally maneuvered into war by the
bush administration and how was this
done this was done in the following way
by targeting those members of the United
Nations Security Council in George Bush
in total violation of his constitutional
duties and without any authority from
the United States Congress whatsoever as
is mandated by the law because the
following he unilaterally forgives the
multi-billion dollar debt of Egypt in
support for their vote he gives a 140
million dollar loan to China in exchange
for its vote while everyone else was
condemning China for the massacre of the
students in Tiananmen Square
he remained steadfastly silent and
instead gave them a 140 million dollar
loan in exchange for their vote the
Soviet Union on the Security Council was
promised seven billion dollars in
economic aid in direct exchange for its
vote Colombia was promised additional
military assistance Zaire was promised
more military aid and was forgiven its
debt to the United States in Saudi
Arabia was promised 12 billion dollars
in arms in exchange for its vote but my
favorite of them all is that the United
States finally agreed to pay off the 187
million dollars of back dues that the
Reagan administration had refused to pay
to the United Nations after the vote
now if there remains any doubt about the
type of coercion that was involved the
only two countries voted against the
resolution one was Cuba the other was
Yemen in the day after the vote all
foreign aid from the United States to
Ayman was terminated now this is the
type of conduct that was engaged in by
the Bush administration and the Bush
administration made it manifest that he
was going to send the military troops in
even without the authority of Congress
so Congress rose up upon its knees and
[Applause]
thrusts its chin into the fist of George
Bush and said well if he's going to do
this anyhow we'd better say it's okay
and then they engaged in an absolutely
unconstitutional unprecedented
delegation of their constitutional
authority their unique and exclusive
authority to declare war under article 1
section 8 and gave the authority to
President Bush to decide whether or not
to declare war completely
unconstitutional in their conduct now
these are these are just some of the
facts that are there that are glaring
facts that are as conspicuous as any
second-rate burglary in the history of
the United States and this is
information that is going to come to
haunt this administration because when
the American public come to learn that
they have been deceived when they have
been been convinced that in fact the
euphoria that they have been subjected
to and that the higher the euphoria the
better it is because when the people
know that they have been betrayed that
their emotions that their heart that
their sentiment has been be fouled by a
man like this and manipulated by the
very same criminals that brought us the
iran-contra crisis that sold the
missiles to Iran are the men who sold
fifty billion dollars worth of military
equipment through the same criminal
combination to this man Saddam Hussein
the American people are not going to
tolerate that in just as in any trial
the happiest moment that I have in any
trial is when the other side has put on
their star witness and they have
testified and the jury is is o convinced
that they must be right when you have
taken that person apart and you have
demonstrated that they have willfully
misled that jury that they have played
upon the emotions and the belief systems
of that jury to try to falsely convince
them in this case that they have been
participants finally in their generation
in at least one Just War that these
people will recoil from this
administration these people will hold
these people to account for what they
have done to the American people and we
are going to participate in that because
[Applause]
[Music]
because the Christic Institute is not
any more dead than the peace and justice
movement we argued our case last week in
the Federal Court of Appeals and we drew
the three-judge panel and the
three-judge panel was chaired by by
Judge Joseph hatchet the only black
judge in the federal circuit
n-double-a-cp litigation attorney and
member of the Urban League appointed by
Jimmy Carter who in the last who in the
last two years has authored opinion
after opinion condemning summary
judgment in overturning summary judgment
after summary judgment pointing out that
this is an absolutely inappropriate way
for trial judges to deal with cases and
we also have on the panel the former
chief judge of the 11th Circuit Court of
Appeals judge Rhone II the most expert
judge in the entire eleventh circuit on
rules of evidence which is exactly what
this case needs to be able to point to
the particular rulings that were made by
Judge King where he took each piece of
evidence and came up with some stupid
analysis as to why it was is
unacceptable for example the sworn
testimony of Jack Terrell saying that
shortly after the bombing I was in the
home of Adolfo Calero in Miami he says
with John Hall in with Rob Owen and with
Philippe Vidal and we sat in the room
and Philippe Vidal turned to me in the
presence of all of these men and said
we're the guys that put the bomb under
Eaton pass Dora and but we missed him
because of bad timing and we'd like to
hire you to carry out a second
assassination attempt against him and
when this information is put in front of
Judge King judge King says that's
hearsay these are direct criminal
admissions by the ones participating in
the direct immediate hearing and
presence of the co-conspirators an
absolute you know freshman law school
lesson in non hearsay and he said even
if it weren't hearsay he says they
didn't use the word in the penka
you kind of wonder how many times that
Eden passed Dora has been bombed in his
life right and so that and then when we
when we brought on the the Attorney
General of Costa Rica who testified
under oath at length to the vast number
of tests that were done the
investigations that were done listing
all the names of the experts in Costa
Rica who did the investigation of the
bombing and analyzed the detonator and
stated to a certainty that akhmad Khalil
is the guy who did the bombing and if
they had come to the conclusions that
these people have done the bombing judge
King says that's unreliable testimony
the Attorney General of Costa Rica that
supervised the entire investigation and
then we have a we have an affidavit from
aguado a man who was in meetings with
John Hall in Tsavo Dario prior to the
bombing who state that they agreed
specifically in the meeting to carry out
the assassination of Eden Pastora and
the judge says well that translation
that you have of that hasn't been
certified by an officially recognized
miami court reporter so then when he
goes through this entire process he says
that's ignoring fifteen other separate
pieces of evidence about the bombing he
said I find that you have no evidence
here at all
I find that no rational person could
possibly believe that John Hall had
anything to do with this bombing now
this puts him in a similar embarrassing
position in light of the fact that John
Hall now stands indicted for
first-degree murder for the LaPenta
bombing by the Costa Rican federal
government the giant hall on the same
evidence that was put before a judge
King stands indicted for massive cocaine
smuggling and first-degree murder it is
the subject of an extradition warrant
now seeking his extradition from the
United States to be returned to Costa
Rica for first-degree murder trials now
it puts judge King's position in a
slightly embarrassing situation and I
think that the court of appeals
recognizes that it is aware of the fact
that if any pretense of integrity is to
be maintained in the American judicial
system that they cannot sustain a
judgment of that nature on the basis of
the evidence that is
the federal courts as we gather so I am
telling you that we are coming back from
some ostensible death that we have not
passed from the scene that you can meet
us on the road to Damascus that we are
on the road to Miami and we will bring
these people to justice and I'm telling
you that the peace and justice movement
is not dead in this country because the
information that I have set forth you
will be brought to the American public
it will be set forth to the American
public
and when in fact we all gather together
this time next spring we'll be able to
say we in this country are doing fine
thank you very very much
[Music]
[Applause]
taking it around Daniel is it possible
we can get the Federal Reserve Act of
1913 repealed and is there a way we can
get the international bankers and
conspirators in jail oh that one has to
one has to move a step by step in
dealing with the the problems that are
presented to us in I think very graphic
form in this particular case the
individuals that we have before us in
this case are an element of the national
security state bureaucracy who have been
engaged in a long pattern of criminal
activities that the there may there are
a number of other strategic problems
that go on in the country and outside of
the country that are not within the
jurisdiction of this particular case now
this now the defendants find that hard
to believe
they think that virtually every single
thing they've done wrong in the last 40
years is now up in front of them but the
fact is this is the area that you raised
is quite beyond the jurisdiction of this
particular case I'd like to sort of
focus on this to answer the folks
questions
did you hear april Gillespie's testimony
today no I've been by what I understand
from what I've gotten from other people
is that she's been backpedaling side
sliding and trying to suggest that there
are portions of her her statements to
Saddam that were left out by his
statements and ours
I'm not sure what she said I have to
take a look at when I get Bandar
mentally what you said was that she said
yes we we don't have any interest in
Arabic difficulties but you cannot solve
this using violence that was so you
haven't heard that yet well no but it's
perfectly obvious that the
administration was fully cognizant of
the fact that he was preparing a
military assault they received direct
instructions from the Central
Intelligence Agency over a four-day
period that given the amount of gasoline
that was brought up the kind of vehicles
that were brought up that there was a
deep penetration being planned for that
area
it wasn't he doubt about what was going
on at that moment there's there's an
extremely interesting question that has
yet to be resolved and that is whether
the Bush administration was sending
these signals with the understanding
that all that Saddam Hussein was going
to do was to retake the border area that
was subject to dispute there there was
massively documented claims that Iraq
has to certain areas along the border
with Kuwait for example that Kuwait was
in a particular region where they were
slant drilling under the territory of
Iraq and drilling into a major lake of
oil that was there and there were very
legitimate claims at least arguably for
moving them away from that area there is
a very strong set of circumstantial
evidence that would lead one reasonably
to believe that what the Bush
administration thought was that any type
of military incursion including the use
of violence was going to be confined to
the borderline areas and for that reason
when when Saddam Hussein said look I've
got a gripe that goes back a lot farther
than that it goes all the way back to
1923 when the British set these
districts and created this little area
and cut us off from the sea etc that he
thought that he would just move right on
into that
area and secure that now that would
obviously have have gone counter to the
expectations of the Bush administration
but there can be very little doubt at
all I believe that the Bush
administration knew full well that
violence was going to be used and was
sending signals that that violence would
be acceptable as long as it was confined
to a certain area now what I think
Saddam Hussein did is in seizing the
entire territory of Kuwait he was he
would have kept it if in fact there was
a complete falling away of any
resistance but what he was attempting to
do I believe was he was attempting to
barter to say look the land that we hold
right now is no different than the land
that's held by Israel and the
Palestinian in the Palestinian area on
the West Bank that what we have done in
ignoring United Nations resolutions is
no different than Israel did and
continuing on into Damascus and in India
and what they did in Beirut and the the
fact is that it's no different than what
the United States did and going into
Panama and what I think he was
attempting to do he was attempting to
substitute his leadership for as an
alternative to Islamic fundamentalism on
the part of Iran you recall when Iran
undertook their competition for the
leadership of the Arab world they
condemned the United States in the West
as the Great Satan attacked them
culturally for all types of religious
failings on the part of the Western
leaders and basically held themselves up
as the Islamic fundamentalist leadership
of the Arab world what Saddam Hussein
was doing was quite different
he was holding himself up on a somewhat
more objective standard of saying that
if in fact international law is going to
be applied it needs to be applied
even-handedly and therefore as long as
he could at least hold on to that
territory and assumed that they would
not use massive military violence
against him it would negotiate that he
could then begin to barter and say that
I will remove my troops from this area
in a major peace conference if you can
get on the table of the peace conference
the issue of having Israel withdraw from
the West
and if you can get the issue of Beirut
and of Lebanon dealt with and so that
his effort to raise himself up as a new
leader for the Arab world was much more
subtle than is being pretended there's
no rational support for the proposition
that he was intending to invade Saudi
Arabia there's the the accusations that
he's some kind of slobbering maniac of
some sort that sort of bent upon major
middle-eastern hegemony is not true and
they know it's not true but what this
they are able to really acknowledge that
they were basically willing to allow him
to use military violence to secure a
part of the border that he had some just
claim to but simply got hoodwinked
but whatever the answers to those
questions they will not be forthcoming
from the administration they're going to
have to be pried out through
cross-examination under sworn testimony
I mean there's not any reason in the
world to believe that April Glaspie is
going to tell the truth to come forward
and simply say oh look I'm not under
oath I'm not required to provide any
documentation for what I'm saying you
have an administration right there the
National Security agent of which
constantly constructed fabricated
chronologies of the entire iran-contra
episode who destroyed papers who
fabricated information now the the
credibility of the Bush administration
and their their staff is absolutely
non-existent in fact well I think me the
subject matter of a major report from
Bill Moyers
Bill Moyers as you saw did a recent
report called high crimes and
misdemeanors in which he set forth in
some detail the absolutely undebatable
evidence showing the Reagan Bush
administration was engaged in
impeachable offenses throughout the
iran-contra episode and he listed in his
February 25th special called operation
sensor a the top ten most important
stories that have not been reported in
the United States the number one story
of which was the direct personal
involvement of George Bush in the
criminal activities of the iran-contra
operation I believe I believe
that what you're going to see
forthcoming probably from bill moyers is
a high crimes and misdemeanors - which
is going to be dealing with George Bush
and what he has done so there's no
reason to inherently believe these
people things that are not under oath
that they're perfectly capable of
fabricating and constructing any type of
rational sounding story right at the
moment and I wouldn't believe them for
one minute
at this time well the other point would
be how do you see this the this story
really coming out to the point where the
American people will believe what you
have outlined I think I think that again
I think that Bill Moyers is one of the
the bright hopes here I think that
you're going to see the information
coming out you know that when the when
the San Diego Union starts to ask
questions like this it isn't because of
their own investigative reporting I can
assure you it's because of memos being
sent from the Christic Institute from
articles being written in The Village
Voice from articles being written in
other types of less lesser newspapers
their alternative media from shows that
are going on National Public Radio in
Pacifica that there as soon as they know
that an adequate number of American
citizenry know this information they're
going to be compelled to come forward
and respond and the key is is to get
them in a context where they have to
testify under oath I mean these people
in the administration in the Congress
think that if you place someone under
oath it's like calling them a liar well
you aren't gonna call me a liar are you
here I'm not gonna come now that's
exactly what they say I mean it was just
like ed Meese saying no I didn't place
anybody under oath and I didn't ask them
any questions under oath
I didn't require them to bring in any
papers or anything like this because
this wasn't an adversary proceeding this
was just an inquiry and when they were
confronted with just a simple inquiry
they lied they fabricated information
they destroyed documents they did all of
that kind of stuff because they believe
that they're justified they believe that
they're seeking and serving a higher
calling the alleged national security of
the United States the National Security
United States that leads to 500,000
United States military personnel having
to try to undo 35 years of criminal
activity on the
this off-the-shelf enterprise that's a
short answer to your question okay
yeah oh my god I'm sure we got to follow
the mic here yeah
optimism is heartwarming to someone
who's had a cold heart over the last
couple of months it's just a little cool
it'll be all right
granted we have the nation progressive
and Mother Jones and even though
Pasadena weeklies had some reality
lately that I couldn't found I found
astounded to see published but uh how
okay and even if your suit does win how
can you really fathom the the in sort of
incestuous relationship between the
corporate back you know press how is
that gonna crack you know I mean I find
it you know cuz I have friends that are
friendly progressive but they think I'm
a kook you know for some of the stuff I
talk about you know I'm addressing it
from reality well I I think I think that
what you really need to do is you need
to try to focus it's the old classic of
the the Bobby Kennedy used to talk about
all the time
he's you can look at a glass and it's
half full of water and you can perceive
it as half-full or half-empty and if you
really focus I don't mean to be trite
but if you if you focus on all the kind
of negative stuff that's going on you
can become quite disheartened but when
in fact you see a guy like Bill Moyers
putting on major nationally televised
shows declaring that they're guilty of
high crimes and misdemeanors when you
see articles appearing in the san diego
union calling for a massive
investigation of these things when you
see a group like the Christic Institute
that has these men held right up in the
docket of justice and they're being
confronted and charged with exactly what
it is they're doing and there's major
shows such as cover-up that are that is
circulating the videotapes are going
around we have alternative news stations
and radio stations we have alternative
news media and a very important positive
sign is that the National Organization
for Women now is engaged in holding
hearings around the country looking
toward establishing a new independent
political party in the United
that these are the that you see you see
the the calling together of 50 of the
top 501c3 public interest organizations
in the country from the Center for
Defense Information to the Environmental
Policy Institute to the National
Organization for Women the Christic
Institute to the other groups around the
country who have spent 25 years some of
these organizations analyzing these
important public policy problems and you
see now that on the one hand while they
are despairing they're despairing only
in the continued fruitless hope that the
Democratic Party is going to do anything
for them and so in a certain sense
that's a very constructive type of
position to come to people are saying I
feel very disillusioned well that's much
better than continuing to be illusioned
you see that's what that's what
disillusioned is and that that once you
once you become disillusioned which i
think is the feeling that you're getting
that strange kind of almost depressed
feeling that you're getting is one of
disillusionment and therefore you have
to shine the light now you have to shine
the light to help illuminate what's
going on and that's what needs to be
done right now you need to look at the
establishment of a sunshine party
instead of a shadow government having a
sunshine government and have it set up
and that's exactly what they're going to
be doing now they're going to be they're
going to be setting up a major national
cabinet made up of the center the chief
executive officers of the major public
interest organizations they're going to
be setting forth concrete positive
proposals no longer saying oh I think
this is wrong with the Republican Clean
Air Act and even these recommendations
by the Democrats are wrong in this way
in this way instead of saying that
what's the positive program here what is
the full Clean Air Act and what's it
going to look like and what businesses
are going to be closed down because of
that
what kind of toxic laws are going to be
imposed in what industries are going to
be shut down because of that and how are
those workers going to be retrained and
how much public money is going to go
into this kind of retraining what type
of national medical care program are we
to have what kind of an educational
system are we going to have not that we
want to have what are we going to have
we're going to get this we got to
transmute that kind of attitude it's not
as though in a lot of this is because
the a lot of the the public justice
movement and a lot of that is made up of
people who sort of came of age in the
60s generation from 65 to 75 people born
from 1945 to 1963 and there's a certain
extended adolescence about our
generation and such that we we think
that somehow we're still in a posture
we're going to this congress made up of
white businessmen in business men's
lawyers it's like going to your father
and asking for the keys to the car on
Friday night gee pop you know can I have
the keys you know and you'll say well
you can have them for a little while and
you can be back in a couple hours and
don't go off the block you know that
that that's the kind of response that
we're getting and so instead of saying
gee gosh shucks dad what we say is you
know get a job buy a car you know go
where you want to go you know that's
what you got to do you got to be grown
up it's time to grow up it's time for a
whole generation across the country to
grow up and to take the reins of
leadership to no longer ask these men
what they're willing to give us but it's
time to take control of this country on
the part of the people
[Music]
mr. sheean first of all I'd like to
thank you for being here I'm from
Riverside and what I'd like to ask is
for your comments on recent articles by
Milton Bjork in The New Yorker and also
Michael Emery in the LA Times and The
Village Voice regarding separate
interviews with King Hussein in which he
detailed how the United States indeed
did really deep-six an Arab solution and
what really went on in even prior to the
invasion itself well I think I think
this is is more of the same point that I
was making initially that the the
evidence that has been set forth is
absolutely overwhelming to the to the
effect that there was absolutely no
intention on the part of the Bush
administration of ever effectuating any
type of peaceful resolution of this
conflict they didn't have the slightest
intention of there being any kind of
Arab solidarity demonstrated to be able
to solve their own problems that's the
last thing that the Bush administration
wanted because you have to understand
these people are not part of the New
World Order these people are considered
by the administration and by the new
European Economic Community leadership
and the new power in Germany and in the
Soviet Union are viewed basically as
Aboriginal peoples you see and
Aboriginal peoples are to be
fundamentally distinguished from the
ubermensch the apex of biological
evolution of Nietzsche the the
dialectical thesis of Hegel of how in
fact they are going to supplant natural
law the natural law and the concepts of
their being a spiritual power in the
universe that binds every ultimately
irreducible integer of matter and the
cosmos together in some type of
harmonious unity that there's any type
of spiritual faculty on the part of the
human family that can discern this unit
of phenomenon so as to be able to
discern what is harmonious or dis
harmonious with this harmony that is
completely antithetical to these people
they believe that in fact that it's a
mythology they believe in fact that
Galion dialectics of the only possible
way to seek after any truth and they
have become absolutely convinced in my
personal opinion that they as the
Caucasian race are the only ones as the
apex of biological evolution that should
manifest a dialectical confrontation
between themselves and the Aboriginal
peoples and they have developed a
concept of political science for the
state pursuant to which the entire state
should be organized in such a way as to
gather together the tax monies and put
them into the hands of this type of
leadership and that if any benefits are
to trickle down to the remainder of the
people the Aboriginal peoples of the
world and they don't reach all the way
to the bottom so much the better because
that's exactly what Darwinian selection
is all about that is the survival of
this particular group of people I
believe that we're dealing with an
absolutely serious and fundamental
problem here I think that we're dealing
with an issue of powers and
principalities I think that we're
dealing with people who are in a process
of declaring war upon the spiritual
world of the human family that they in
fact are going to declare war on the
people of religious belief the people of
spiritual belief the people who believe
in the in sustaining life in this world
in supporting the environment and living
in balance with the environment the
consequences of their policies are not
coincidental these are not coincidental
they accused the Christic Institute
constantly of being conspiracy theorists
these are the men who believe that
everything is a coincidence
and so what I'm saying is that these
people have a certain pattern to what
they're doing it is not accidental that
there are all these white male
businessmen and businessmen lawyers in
in the in the Congress of the United
States it's not coincidental that the
vast amounts of their money to sustain
them each and every year and in the
elections comes from the massive
corporate side of the country and it
doesn't require that one be a Marxist in
order to have any insight into what it
is these people are doing because in
fact the Marxists are also dialectician
who also reject the basic spiritual
realm and the access of the spirit to
this and have paid the consequences for
that what we really need to understand
is that the struggle is not between the
state capitalists on the one hand and
the state communists on the other hand
and dialectical struggle the fundamental
struggle that is going on is between the
people who believe in natural law who
believe in the fundamental power of the
Spirit the ability to have faith in the
life-sustaining power of the entire
planet in the universe against the men
who would Forge that beauty into power
for themselves and to dominate and
subjugate to the rest of the people of
the world and that is why they will
conceal this information from you that
is why they will not allow any Arab
solutions to Arab problems because this
isn't an Arab problem this is a problem
that the Caucasians are having getting
the Arabs oil
[Applause]
[Music]
can you comment on what I heard I
believe somewhere early on after the
initial invasion that George Bush said I
will not go in I'm not going sending in
the military and that apparently he had
some weekend with Margaret Thatcher
where which must have been semi
interesting but that he emerged from
that then with the plan to go in
militarily I've heard that particular
story and there's there's very little
doubt that had happened based upon the
sources and there was very little doubt
as to what she was advocating but I
don't I don't believe that George Bush
ever had any real intention of not
sending the military in I think it's
perfectly clear that the entire scenario
based upon the exchange of documents and
papers and targeting the Persian Gulf
and then Kuwait in Iraq in the the issue
of the oil was all a major pattern that
was set forth here and I think that any
time that he was suggesting that he that
he didn't want to oh I really don't want
to have to send in its you know a lot of
this please don't throw me in that briar
patch you know I don't believe any of
that stuff you know I don't think that
that she talked him into it well there's
a major series of articles by Mori wasps
in the Village Voice where he sets forth
the details of this more he's got a lot
of the documentation details of it
Sarki saguenay leon has talked at some
length about this the the iran-contra
committee has never looked into any of
this what do they ask you what effect
you think that the indictments handed
down in Costa Rica will have on your
lawsuit will they be admissible as
evidence well we we in fact have
submitted them to the federal court of
appeals we have submitted them pursuant
to a special order in the court of
appeals a special rule that authorizes
the submission of evidence that would
demonstrate that rulings made by the
lower court are an act of manifest
injustice and they've given the other
side a full opportunity to respond to
them
the only response the defendants have
had when we say well in fact they stand
indicted of first-degree murder and they
say well that's down in Costa Rica you
know it's like it's an indictment from
all them you know down there
that's base that's basically their their
position I mean Costa Rica that has that
the most the longest sustained democracy
in Central America you know that's it's
it's a major position of democracy and
justice and everything else you know
they're gonna they're gonna be very very
hard pressed to suggest that that is
anything other than a thoroughly just
and fair set of indictments so that when
we when we've submitted them to the
court we discussed them during the the
oral argument and the judge is set right
there and wrote down the names of the
people that have been indicted and have
that before them and I'm very confident
that they're going to be considering
that evidence as substantive evidence in
making their decision now we got one
more one more question and then we're
gonna have to we promised the people
we'd be gone by 9:30 I think yeah
there's a lot of conflicting reports
coming out right now about the civil war
in Iraq I mean there are people going
there saying that there is not fighting
happening in places where we're being
told on the television that there is
fighting I was reading if you could
comment on that and also if you could
comment on what the plan is the u.s.
plan for Iraq in the future well the
there's two the two parts of that
question that one of the one of the most
serious dangers that obtain at the
present time is that with closing all of
the major media out of Iraq and giving
massive play to all of this alleged
fighting that is going on in there what
you see now you're beginning to see
little bits of pictures and stuff come
out they say oh look at this ravaged
area and they're using helicopters and
they're bombing and they're all this
kind of stuff there there is a very
serious risk that a significant amount
of the damage that was done by the
United States bombing and the deaths
that were caused are going to be falsely
attributed to this type of civil war for
then it's her own say oh all of these
accusations that we killed all these
poor kids and all that kind of stuff you
know no that's that was this horrible
Saddam Hussein doing more stuff killing
more of
people that's a very serious risk it's
going to be very very difficult to to
get autopsies done to show when the the
people were killed and how they were
killed so that's one very very serious
problem in the second half of year the
question was what the what's the plans
the plans the United States has for a
wreck a certain set of documents that
have been put together by the United
States Pentagon as to what they plan to
do inside inside Kuwait for example
other than to put the gold-plated you
know faucets back in for the Emir and to
have the Corps of Engineers go around
and rebuild his castle and the you know
his gold-plated toilets you know but
there's a there's a major set of plans
going on to reinstitute a non-democratic
fascist government under the Emir and
the the question as to what they plan to
do up in up in Iraq really has a lot
more to do with the question of what
they really plan to do with regard to
Saddam Hussein do they really sense the
promise was that they would overthrow
Saddam Hussein and that they haven't
done that yet and they make all this
noise about well you better not use the
chemical weapons against your folks so
we're gonna have to then invade you you
haven't used the chemical weapons you
better not use the helicopters against
those people we're gonna have to invade
you you know you better not use bullets
you know so it's not clear exactly what
it is that they're doing what their plan
is at the present time it's quite clear
that they have not fulfilled their
promise to Iran I made on October 29th
of 1985 to overthrow Saddam Hussein and
I'll just I'll just close with the idea
of how important it may be for them to
keep that promise it's extremely
important for you to understand that the
promises that were made by the secret
team of Richard Secord Albert Hakim and
Theodore Shaklee and his meetings with
gabbana fire and the others that the
promises that were made were not made in
exchange for getting the hostages
released which has not happened that
promises were not made to give them tow
missiles and to overthrows
daaamn Hussein in exchange for getting
William Buckley released what the
promises were made for is in exchange
for the Hezbollah and the Iranians not
to release to the American public the
content of the interrogation of William
Buckley William Buckley was interrogated
and has a 400 page transcript of his
interrogations in which he set forth in
some detail the data showing that deep
within the Central Intelligence Agency
in 1976 under the supervision of George
Bush and his director of covert
operations Theodore Shaklee there was
operating a political assassination unit
under the control of William Buckley
himself and that this group was
responsible for instigating a wide
series of allegedly unilateral acts of
terrorism undertaken against the United
States the taking of the embassy the
blowing up of the Marine Corps barracks
the assassination of Malloy Francis
Malloy the United States ambassador to
to Lebanon that this 400 page transcript
is the source of living terror every
single day to the Bush administration
and as long as they don't keep their
promise to get rid of Saddam Hussein the
threat of the release of that document
which would in my judgment bring George
Bush crashing to the constitutional
floor remains hanging over those people
every single day
and you need to understand what the real
dynamic is that went on behind the sale
of those tow missiles and the real
dynamic of going on what is going on in
George Bush's mind right now about this
promise that was made in 1985 to get rid
of Saddam Hussein it's in that context
you have to stop and ask what is still
in store for Saddam Hussein and more
importantly what is still in store for
George Bush thank you very much
you